Table of Contents

NAME

index.gloss, gloss.idx - index of words found in WordNet synset glosses

DESCRIPTION

The WordNet gloss index lists all of the content words found in the synset
glosses and identifies the gloss(es) containing the word. The file
stoplist.pl contains a list of functions words that are omitted from the
gloss index.

This file can be used to help find WordNet synsets that are related
topically. For example, the gloss index can be used to find synsets in all
syntactic categories related to the monosemous noun and verb golf by
retrieving all synsets listed in the gloss index after the strings golf ,
golfclub , golfer and golfers .

It is important to note, as indicated in the previous example, that in this
file words are simply strings of consecutive characters found in the
glosses, and are not syntactically tagged or lemmatized. Base forms and
various inflections must be searched for separately. Strings are all in
lower case, however, so gloss terms encountered in synsets in both upper and
lower case are folded into the same word entry.

File Format

The gloss index file is in alphabetical order, fields are separated by one
space, and each line is terminated with a newline character. Items in
italicized square brackets may not be present.

Each line is of the form:

     word pos,synset_offset [pos,synset_offset...]

where word is a lower case string of characters as found in a synset gloss
and pos is an integer indicating the syntactic category of the synset as
follows:

     1    NOUN
     2    VERB
     3    ADJECTIVE
     4    ADVERB

See wndb(5WN) for a description of synset_offset .

NOTES

The gloss index is a very large file (5.7MB), and is not used by the WordNet
searching software. It can be useful to applications that the user may wish
to write, and is therefore included in the WordNet package. If you are not
doing research or development that uses this file, it can be deleted from
the WNSEARCHDIR directory in order to save disk space.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

WNHOME
     Base directory for WordNet. Unix default is /usr/local/wordnet1.6 , PC
     default is C:\wn16 , Macintosh default is : .
WNSEARCHDIR
     Directory in which the WordNet database has been installed. Unix and PC
     default is WNHOME/dict . Macintosh default is :Database .

FILES

All files are in directory WNSEARCHDIR :

index.gloss
     gloss index (Unix and Macintosh)
gloss.idx
     gloss index (PC)
stoplist.pl
     Perl associative array listing function words to ignore when parsing
     glosses

SEE ALSO

senseidx(5WN) , wndb(5WN) .

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents

   * NAME
   * DESCRIPTION
        o File Format
   * NOTES
   * ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
   * FILES
   * SEE ALSO
