Table of Contents

NAME

morphinit, re_morphinit, morphstr, morphword

SYNOPSIS

#include "wn.h"

int morphinit(void);

int re_morphinit(void);

char *morphstr(char *origstr, int pos);

char *morphword(char *word, int pos);

DESCRIPTION

The WordNet morphological processor, Morphy, is accessed through these
functions:

morphinit() is used to open the exception list files. It returns 0 if
successful, -1 otherwise. The exception list files must be opened before
morphstr() or morphword() are called.

re_morphinit() is used to close the exception list files and reopen them,
and is used exclusively for WordNet development. Return codes are as
described above.

morphstr() is the basic user interface to Morphy. It tries to find the base
form (lemma) of the word or collocation origstr in the specified pos . The
first call (with origstr specified) returns a pointer to the first base form
found. Subsequent calls requesting base forms of the same string must be
made with the first argument of NULL. When no more base forms for origstr
can be found, NULL is returned.

morphword() tries to find the base form of word in the specified pos . This
function is called by morphstr() for each individual word in a collocation.

NOTES

morphinit() is called by wninit() and is not intended to be called directly
by an application. Applications wishing to use WordNet and/or the
morphological functions must call wninit() at the start of the program. See
wnutil(3WN) for more information.

origstr may be either a word or a collocation formed by joining individual
words with underscore characters (_ ).

Usually only morphstr() is called from applications, as it works on both
words and collocations.

pos must be one of the following:

     1    NOUN
     2    VERB
     3    ADJECTIVE
     4    ADVERB
     5    ADJECTIVE SATELLITE

If ADJECTIVE SATELLITE is passed, it is treated by morphstr() as ADJECTIVE.

SEE ALSO

wnsearch(3WN) , wndb(5WN) , morphy(7WN) .

WARNINGS

Passing an invalid part of speech will result in a core dump.

The WordNet database files must be open to use morphstr() or morphword().

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents

   * NAME
   * SYNOPSIS
   * DESCRIPTION
   * NOTES
   * SEE ALSO
   * WARNINGS
