Table of Contents

NAME

wnpkgs - description of various WordNet system packages

DESCRIPTION

WordNet 1.6 is distributed in several formats and in various packages. All
of the packages are available via anonymous FTP from
ftp://ftp.cogsci.princeton.edu and from the WordNet World Wide Web site at
http://www.cogsci.princeton.edu/~wn/ . A CD-ROM containing the PC and
Macintosh packages will be available from MIT Press in Spring of 1998.
Search their web site at http://mitpress.mit.edu for information on
purchasing the CD-ROM.

Packages Available Via FTP or WWW

The following WordNet packages can be downloaded using a web browser such as
Netscape from ftp://ftp.cogsci.princeton.edu/wordnet/ , or from the web site
noted above. Users can also FTP directly from ftp.cogsci.princeton.edu ,
directory wordnet .

    Package         Filename        Platform Size*        Description

                                                     WordNet 1.6 database,
                                                     interfaces, sense
 WordNet 1.6   wn16.unix.tar.gz                      index, gloss index,
 Database      wn16pc.exe           Unix     37MB    interface and library
               wn16mac.sea
                                                     source
                                                     code,documentation.

                                                     Semantic concordance
                                                     files tagged to
 Semantic      semcor16.unix.tar.gz                  WordNet 1.6 database,
 Concordance   semcor16.exe         Unix     43MB    escort (1WN)
               semcor16.mac.sea
                                                     interface,
                                                     documentation.

                                                     WordNet 1.6 database
 Prolog                                              files in
 Database      prolog16.tar.gz      All      18.6MB  Prolog-readable
                                                     format, documentation.

                                                     Mapping of 1.5 noun
 Sense Map     snsmap16.tar.gz      All      6.7MB   senses to 1.6 senses,
                                                     documentation.

* Size refers to size of installed package. The size of the installed
database package differs by computer platform. Ths size listed is for the
largest installation.

The WordNet database and accompanying packages require a large amount of
disk space as noted in the table above. The database package contains
necessary files and some auxiliary files which may be deleted to save space.
Listed in the table below are the sizes of required and optional files.

                            File             Size  Required

                 Required database files    22MB   Yes

                 cntlist                    .9MB   No

                 Gloss Index (index.gloss)  5.7MB  No

                 Sense Index (index.sense)  6.1MB  No

CD-ROM

The WordNet 1.6 CD-ROM contains the WordNet database package for the PC and
Macintosh systems. The user can choose to install the entire package,
including all the database files, on their system, or to run WordNet from
the CD-ROM. The other WordNet packages are also included on the CD-ROM.

Database Package

The database package is a complete installation for WordNet 1.6 users. It
includes the 1.6 database files, precompiled binaries for the platforms
specified below, source code for the WordNet browsers and library, and
documentation. The other packages are not included - they must be downloaded
and installed separately.

Note that these are the platforms that the binaries were compiled on. Most
should work on newer versions of the operating system.

                      Hardware      Operating System

                    Sun SPARC     SunOS 4.1.3

                    Sun SPARC     Solaris 2.5.2

                    SGI           IRIX 5.3

                    PC(486)       Linux (kernel 2.0.27)

                    PC(Pentium)   Windows/95

                    PC(386)       Windows 3.1

                    PC(386)       DOS

                    PowerMac      MacOS 7.5.1

Semantic Concordance Package

The semantic concordance package contains three sets of semantically tagged
Brown Corpus files, statistical information, and the escort(1WN) interface
precompiled for the Unix and Windows-based PC platforms listed above.
Documentation describing the format of the semantic concordance files and on
using escort(1WN) is included. The WordNet 1.6 database is not included in
this package and must be downloaded separately.

Prolog Database Package

The WordNet 1.6 database files are available in this package in a
Prolog-readable format. Documentation describing the file format is
included. This package is only downloadable in compressed tar file format,
although once unpackaged it can be used from PC and Macintosh systems since
the files are in ASCII.

Sense Map Package

To help users automatically convert 1.5 noun senses to their corresponding
1.6 senses, we provide noun sense mapping information in this package. This
package contains files to map polysemous and monosemous nouns, and
documentation that describes the format of these files. As with the Prolog
database, this package is only downloadable in compressed tar format, but
the files are also in ASCII.

NOTES

The lexicographer files and grind(1WN) program are not distributed.

The tools and programs used to create the semantic concordances are not
distributed.

SEE ALSO

wnintro(1WN) , wnintro(3WN) , wnintro(5WN) , wnintro(7WN) .

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents

   * NAME
   * DESCRIPTION
        o Packages Available Via FTP or WWW
        o CD-ROM
        o Database Package
        o Semantic Concordance Package
        o Prolog Database Package
        o Sense Map Package
   * NOTES
   * SEE ALSO
